# Everything is an object
This statement is false since values like "true and "false" are not objects. But everything in JS can be represented in the form of an object(including symbols).
```js
let bool = true 
console.log(typeof bool);
let boolObj = new Boolean(true)
console.log(boolObj, typeof boolObj);\
/*
boolean
[Boolean: true] object
*/
``` 
Js has 8 built in types => **7 primitives + object**  
## Primitive types in javascript 
1. undefined
2. string
3. number
4. boolean
5. symbol
6. bigint
7. null(Yes null is a primitive eventhoug the typeof null is an object)
  

## Objects
Arrays, functions are subtypes of objects.  

## JS types fact

1. In javascript **variables don't have types but it is the values that have types**. So a variable can hold any values at any time. The variable which was holding a value of the type number in the next assignment statement can hold a value of the type string.(This is not possible in languages like C where "int varName = 20" after which varName can hold only integers).  

2. In JS the **type of the value** assigned to a variable decides whether the value stored is **assign by value** or **assign by reference**. All the primitive types are value assignments(pass by value) whereas the non primitives(compound values) such as objects, arrays, functions etc are reference assignments(pass by reference).  

3. In a statically typed language the type of the variable should be known at the compile time Eg: int a => in "C". Whereas in a **dynamically typed**  such as JS, a variable can receive different values at the runtime and thus the type of the variable is known only at the runtime
    ```js
    //*Dynamically typed language:
    let val = true
    console.log(val);
    val = {
      name:"Praveen"
    }
    console.log(val);
    //op =>
    /*
    true
    { name: 'Praveen' }
    */
    ```
# undefined
This is the **default value** in any variable or property if no other value is present. 
undefined means a variable has been declared but has **not yet been assigned** a value.  
undefined is **not same as undeclared**.  
```js
let person1 
console.log(person1);
//op => undefined
```

Undefined is also a primitive datatype we can **assign** it to variable but this is a bad practice and null should be preferred.
```js
let a = undefined
console.log(a)
```

## Bug alert🤫🤫🤫  
Eg: 1.1
```js
let undefined = 1000000000000 
console.log(undefined);
//op => 1000000000000
```
  
Eg: 1.2
```js
"use strict";
undefined = 2; 
console.log(undefined);
//op => TypeError
```
  
Eg: 1.3  
```js
"use strict";
let undefined = 1000000000000 
console.log(undefined);
//op => 1000000000000
```
  
Eg: 1.4
```js
undefined = 1000000000000 
console.log(undefined);
//op => undefined
```
In eg 1.1 and 1.3 we dont get an error because in both strict mode and non strict mode undefined when declared and assigned a value it will not rise an error.  
But when we straight away assign a value to undefined in the strict mode the global undefined gets affected and thus in strict mode we will get a typeError
Thus undefined can be used as a variable(buggy bug😔) whereas null cannot be used.  
This is a bad practice and never to be used.  


## null vs undefined  
null => empty value (or) had a value and doesnt anymore.  
undefined => missing value (or) hasnt had a value yet.  

## null  
null can be assigned to a variable as a representation of no value. Thus null is used to represent the intentional absence of the value.  
  
## Why it is preferential to use null as a representation of no value:  
```js
console.log(2 + null);
console.log(2 + undefined);
console.log(Number(undefined))
console.log(Number(null))
//op => 2 NaN NaN 0
```

```js
let obj = {
    name: undefined,
    age: null,
}
console.log(JSON.stringify(obj));
//OP => {"age":null}
```
JSON.stringify will **omit the properties which has a Json unsafe value**(undefined)

## void operator
The void operator voids out any value so the result of the expression is undefined.  
It doesnt modify the existing value in the variable but it only ensures that the operator expression doesnt return anything.
```js
let a = 10
console.log(void a, a);
void a
console.log(a);
/*
op=> undefined 10 
    10
*/
```

# BigInt
In essence, BigInt allows for storing large integers and very small decimal nos without losing precision. If bigInts are not used, a **large numeric literal** would be converted into a floating point and **lose precision of the least significant digits**.  
 BigInt is created by **appending n** to the end of an integer literal or by calling the function **BigInt()**.  
 ## When to use BigInt ??
 Anything below Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER and above Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER can be represented in BigInt. Numeric literals with absolute values equal to 2^53 or greater are too large to be represented accurately as integers.
 ```js
 console.log(Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER)
 console.log(Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)
 /*
 -9007199254740991
9007199254740991
 */
 ```
 **Eg:1**
 ```js
let no1 = 9999999999999999
console.log(no1 > Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)
console.log(no1);
let no2 = 9999999999999999n
console.log(no2, typeof no2);
/*
true
10000000000000000
9999999999999999n bigint
*/
 ```
**Eg:2**
 ```js
 let a1 = -123456781234567812345678123456781234567812345678123456781234567812345678
console.log(typeof a1, a1)
//op
// number -1.2345678123456781e+71
 ```
 Here a1 is stored as **-1.2345678123456781 * 10^71**.  
 Thus precision is lost.
 ```js
  let a1 = BigInt(-123456781234567812345678123456781234567812345678123456781234567812345678)
console.log(typeof a1, a1)
// op => bigint -123456781234567814680420620681620273714086466091253368728282650667646976n
 ```
 ## TypeError :surfing_woman:
 ```js
 let no2 = 9999999999999999n
console.log(no2 + 1);
//TypeError: Cannot mix BigInt and other types, use explicit conversions
 ```
 **Numbers cannot be added to bigInts**. They have to be explicitly converted. 
 ```js
  let no2 = 9999999999999999n
console.log(no2 + BigInt(1));
// op => 10000000000000000n
 ```

 ## BigInt for representation
 How to remove the n in Bigint so that it can be represented to the users ??
 ```js
 let bint = 1234567812345678123456781234567812345678123n
 console.log(bint);
 // op =>  1234567812345678123456781234567812345678123n
 console.log(Number(bint))
  // op => 1.234567812345678e+42 👎
 console.log(String(bint));
 // op => 1234567812345678123456781234567812345678123 👍
 ```